# kiBon Exchange API Commons

This project contains DTOs and utils that are shared between kiBon and the exchange service.

These are kiBon-internal DTOs.

# Avro Schema Evolution - Dos and Don'ts
* Make sure to only edit the *.avsc files - the Java classes are automatically generated by the avro-maven-plugin
* When adding a new field, make sure to specify a `default:` value. 
When there is no default value for a field, a new consumer cannot determine the correct value for the field when parsing an old record.
* Only fields with a default value may be removed. 
Otherwise new records cannot be parsed by old consumers.
* Never rename the base `name` and `namespace`. 
The name and namespace is used by KafkaAvroDeserializer with `avro.specific.reader = true`, to generate a specific 
record instance, e.g. `VerfuegungEventDTO.class`. If a Kafka topic receives messages with another name/namespace, an
old message consumer will crash, since it doesn't contain the new class in it's class path.
 
## How-To update a schema
Let's assume `InstitutionEventDTO` needs to be updated. E.g. a new field `website` shall be added.

1. Rename `InstitutionEventDTO.avsc` to `InstitutionEventDTOv1.avsc` (just to make sure all files have a version suffix) 
2. Copy `InstitutionEventDTOv1.avsc` to `InstitutionEventDTOv2.avsc`
3. Add the version suffix to the `name` attribute in the old schema `InstitutionEventDTOv1.avsc` to make sure there is 
no conflict when generating the classes.
4. Update the subject reference in the `kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin` configuration in `pom.xml`.
5. Add the new attribute with a default value (e.g. null, empty string)
6. Run `mvn clean install` to generate the class files.

The version-suffixed classes may actually not be used in production. Automatic deserialisazion relies on finding a class
with a matching name and package in the class-path, e.g. corresponding to the `name` and `namespace` attributes of the
Avro schema. Thus, the suffixes may not be used to generate or read events in production.
However, we can use the suffixed versions to test schema compatibility.
